More on data (#272)
merely-useful/merely-useful.github.io: rse-project.Rmd

> Documentation that serves these two groups well
> will almost certainly serve the needs of strangers as well.

These additional rules are taken from [@Good2014,@Mich2015,@Hart2016,@Zook2017]:

> -   **Keep raw data raw.**

Reviewer: Raw data may also just the data as you received it or downloaded it from a repository.  Retaining an unchanged version is important for reproducibility, and in case you use the wrong read/write mode and blow away your working copy.

    Exactly what constitutes "raw" data isn't always clear:
    the analog inputs to a voltmeter probably don't need to be recorded on tape
    if we have the voltmeter's digitized output.
    However,
    our analysis methods and tools can change over time,
    and even after years of work they can contain bugs.
    We should therefore keep the original data exactly as we received it
    so that we can re-do previous analyses or try new ones.
    This is also a good safeguard if anyone ever questions the integrity of the research:
    it will be hard to defend ourselves against accusations of fraud
    if we can't show our work.

> -   **Give every part of the data a unique identifier.**

Reviewer: "every part of the data" is extremely unclear here.  This reads like every cell in a dataset should have a DOI, which is safe to presume not the intent.  Can this be revised a bit?  Every datapoint in a dataset should have an "address" or location description that can uniquely identify it. For example, a data point may be within file ACX-02.csv, under column reading_type, and in row 450. 

I'm not sure I like to see discussion of persistent identifiers and row/column ids within the same discussion.  File names, column names, and entity IDs should be unique, meaningful, and their patterns/meaning documented.  Datasets should have DOIs once used for a publication.

Reviewer 2: Yes that wording was unclear to me at first as well. I also read it as it referred to every cell or variable.

Reviewer: changes look good

    To aid reproducibility (and save a lot of confusion in conversation),
    it should be possible to uniquely identify every part of every dataset.
    The dataset itself should have a [DOI][doi] (Section \@ref(rse-publish-identifiers)),
    and within the dataset,
    every file should have a meaningful name (Section \@ref(rse-project-data-vs-code)).
    Going further,
    every record should have a unique [key][key] within the dataset (Section \@ref(rse-publish-data)).

-   **Have a backup plan.**
    Every hard drive eventually fails;
    the hardware needed to read various storage media eventually becomes unavailable,
    and there is always the risk that bankruptcy, corporate merger, or a court order
    will shut down the site we've been using to store our data.
    We should therefore always have a second copy in a different physical and jurisdictional locational.
    If the primary store is GitHub,

>     copy the data onto a CD-ROM and give it to the departmental secretary for safekeeping.

Reviewer 2: Not sure how many of the readers will have access to a departmental secretary...

```suggestion
    copy the data to a secondary online storage provider,
    or a CD-ROM and give it to the departmental secretary for safekeeping.
```

Reviewer 3: Definitely agree, not sure it is the secretaries job here. They are usually quite busy as it is, and I don't think we should add this to their list of duties. Simply saying "store in a secure location" works just as well.

Reviewer 3: And I'm not sure I would say "CD-ROM". Maybe USB key instead? Or if using a CD-ROM, store only the more "final" version of a dataset? Can't see how this would work in actual practice... Combined with the fact that some data needs to be securely stored (health or personal data). I'd remove reference to CD-ROM.

>     copy the data onto a CD-ROM and give it to the departmental secretary for safekeeping.

Reviewer: If I tried to do this I would get massive pushback because their filing systems are not designed for data nor is my data their responsibility to ensure.  Many academic institutions have some form of institutional repository where things can be uploaded to, some long term data storage solution, or a unit better equipped to handle long term data storage requests than front office admin staff.  Also, some cheaper brands of burnable CD-ROMs only have a lifespan of 1-2 years.  People should first contact their departmental level IT department to ask for policies, then expand their searches to their library, research IT group, or grant compliance staff as needed.

    (Their filing system is probably more systematic than ours.)

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If the data contains sensitive information,
such as personal health records,
you must ensure that the storage location complies with the data privacy regulations
and that the data is properly anonymized before it is uploaded to an off-site storage location.

```

Reviewer 3: 100% agree. GDPR here in Europe makes working and storing health/personal/sensitive data quite difficult, so its important to include this mention somewhere.

Reviewer: The updates look good, but Luke should take a look first.
